AnnoTool
Advanced Image Annotation
Version 0.3.1
written by Oliver Schwahn
for MIS, TU-Darmstadt


----
This file contains some usage hints for AnnoTool-Users.
There is no manual or something like that, so this is the only source for usage
information.
----


<<  Toolbar & Tools  >>
-----------------------
In this section, the main tools are described from left to right. They are all quite easy
to use, so there will not be too much text.

 *  'Lock Parent' Button
 		By pressing this button you lock the currently selected annotation as parent
 		annotation within the annotation hierarchy. All subsequently created annotations will
 		be child annotations of the locked parent.
 *  'Arrow'-Tool
    The Arrow Tool is for manipulating and selecting annotations on the graphics canvas.
    Before you can edit an annotation you must first select it by clicking onto it. Once
    the shape is selected you can change its position by dragging the shape to the
    destination location. By dragging the shape handles (little cycles) you can change
    the shape's size or in case of a polygon the shape itself.
 *  'SinglePoint'-Tool
    The SinglePoint Tool is for adding single point annotations to the image. Just click
    onto the image where you want the point to be placed.
 *  'Rectangle'-Tool
    The Rectangle Tool adds a rectangle annotation to the image. Click at the point where
    you want the rectangle to start, then drag the mouse pointer to the point where you
    want the rectangle to end. It's intuitive so just try.
 *  'Polygon'-Tool
    The Polygon Tool adds new polygon annotations to the image or edits existing ones.
    To add a new polygon to the image, just click onto the image where you want the 
    polygon points. If you are finishes and want to close the polygon you can either
    click onto the first polygon point or just double-click anywhere else on the image.
    To edit an existing polygon, click onto the polygon you want to edit and hold the
    Ctrl-Key while you click. By doing that you enter the edit mode for the clicked
    polygon. To change the position of a polygon point, hold the Ctrl-Key and drag it to
    the location you want it to stay. To remove a polygon point hold Ctrl & Shift and
    click onto the point you want to remove. To add a new polygon point hold Ctrl & Alt
    and click onto the polygon line where you want to add the point. Note that you must
    point as accurate as possible onto the polygon line, a bit inside the polygon is ok,
    too but not outside.
 *  'Ellipse'-Tool
    The Ellipse Tool adds an ellipse annotation to the image. Click at the point where
    you want the ellipse to start, then drag the mouse pointer to the point where you
    want the ellipse to end. It's intuitive so just try.


<<  Changeing the hierarchy  >>
-------------------------------
You can change the annotation hierarchy by dragging and dropping the annotations within
the annotation list. There you can see the current hierarchy and change it easily by
dragging and dropping. If you drop an annotation onto another one this other one will
be the new parent of the dropped annotation. Just try, it's easy and intuitive.
If you ever want to delete an annotation or a whole subtree of annotations, there are
two buttons on top of the annotation list. The single 'X' deletes the currently selected
annotation, the child annotations are move one level up in the hierarchy. The double
'X' deletes the currently selected annotation and all child annotations.


<<  Setting Annotation Classes & Attributes  >>
-----------------------------------------------
At first, select the annotation you want to edit. There is an extra view for all
annotation data including attributes and classes. On top of that view there are some
buttons. They are for adding & removing attributes and classes. Just try, it's easy
to use.
There is an alternate way of editing an annotation's class and attribute data.
Right-click on the selected annotation shape. A context menu pops up. Use the menu entries
to perform all the actions in a fast and easy way. But be aware of the fact that this
context menu feature is still under development, so watch out for bugs ;-)


<<  Adding new images  >>
-------------------------
To add a new image to the annotation project you must open the "Add Image" dialog. This
can be done either by clicking the appropriate toolbar button or by using the
application's main menu. Add new images by clicking the "Add Images" or "Add Video"
button and select a location where to store the annotation data files that will be created
for the new images.





